Hello,
everyone.
Since we are on a network configuration,
part of the Lennox will talk about Nick bonding,
where exactly the nick bonding is just to let you know,
Nick Bonding is one of the very important and critical aspect in the next number
configuration,
and this type of questions are asked often time in an interview.
So let's see a Nick and Nick stands for network interface card that is attaches to your
computer.
So if you look at your laptop or behind,
your PC will see a little port in there and that poor is your neck with Nick,
which network interface card bonding is also known as network bonding,
it can be defined as the aggregation or combination off multiple nick into a single bond
interface.
Its main purpose is to provide high availability and redundancy.
So let's look at our picture.
We have this four neck cards on a computer,
so what we do in Nick bonding is we take two ports.
We combine them together,
and the reason we combined them because of what If one port dies,
we still have another port.
So this is for the redundancy.
So another way to make two ports redundant or to have them.
High availability is you combine them together.
If a port is one gig and the other port is one,
get you.
Combine them together to aggregate them and get the true put off.
Two.
Gig.
This is achieved for high availability and link aggregation.
So Nick bonding procedure is that you type mod prob owning,
which is to get the configuration off your driver info bonding to get the information of
your bonding.
Then you create a file called If Convict Bond zero.
You added the first Internet one.
You added the second,
Ethan that,
and you combine them and point to bond.
Zero.
If you have Nick one file,
you create another Nick to file for the second neck,
and then you create 1/3 file called Bond zero.
You point your Nick one and Nick to files to word bond zero.
And then what do you do at the end?
You restart the network off your computer,
since the command is system CTL Restart network.
So without further do I log into my system and I'll tell you exactly how Nick bonding can
be done.
And before we start this fortune box I want you to take its snapshot.
The reason I'm taking a snapshot is so good.
Rigor of work back to a state which is where it is right now after we do all the
configuration.
So click on right here,
you see snap shot,
click on Snapshot And right here says take click on the take.
Leave the snapshot number one as name default and click.
OK,
now it has taken the snapshot.
Now I want you to click on setting Go to network click on network adapter to check enabled
network adapter and select Bridged Adapt.
Now we will have to Nick's on a computer,
which is one here adapter one and adapt to to If you want more adapters,
we could go to it after three and four and check on a naval network adapter.
But we will work only Dr One and Adopter to at this time.
And I want you cook.
Okay,
So once the setting is done,
go ahead and click on start.
Go ahead and log in as yourself.
Okay.
When you have the desktop right,
click on your desktop and open up your terminal.
I'd like to make the consul the terminal a little bigger.
Go ahead and type if config and doom or under output.
And here you will see.
Now you have to network interfaces.
One is an E and P zero as three.
And the 2nd 1 is GNP's oh estate.
The NP zero s eight is the one that we just added to article worship box.
No,
What we want to do is we want to combine these 23 and ate together and make a bond out of
these two interfaces.
Become rules first.
Okay,
let's clear the screen now.
I will open up a document that I have that has all the commands and configuration in my
document.
This document is also added as port off your handouts.
So before you do this exercise,
I want you to also open up this document from your handouts.
Have it side by side while you do the configuration of bonding.
So I have already opened this document.
Okay,
so now it says,
Just follow the directions.
This is add.
And you,
Nick,
if it does not exist installed bonding driver mod problem bonding.
You need to install this if you don't have bonding enabled.
But let's say if you do have it or not,
so do mod info bonding,
and I want you to do more on it.
And once you doom or and if you get their output and description,
says Ethan,
a child bonding driver,
words in 3.7 up one.
That means you already have the driver installed,
which is the Mod Probe and Lennox.
So you don't have to worry about installing it so you can move on to the next step.
Okay,
The next step is to create a new file called I See If G dash on zero right here and I have
to create this file in this directory in this path.
So if I copy and paste is not gonna work,
so I have to type it.
So I go back into a machine and I do the eye at sea.
Sis config Network scripts.
See if g dash bond Jew Now you are envy.
I mode hit I to insert,
and I want you to start typing exactly what's it's written in there.
Please make sure don't make a mistake.
Type is bond.
Name off.
This bond is a bond zero bonding master meaning?
Who is the Master off.
This bonding is it's a self so yes,
it's a boot proedl.
So when you type none or static,
it means the same thing.
So type none on boot.
Yes,
I p address.
I'm sorry.
There's a mistake.
It should be just i p a d D r The I p that I have picked is 1 92 the 1 68 0.1 dot 80.
Because I have already typed this I p before and I know this I p does not exist.
Nobody has taken it.
But if you want to confirm if this I p is not taken,
you could just go into you could open up another terminal and duping 19 to 1 68 a $1.80 and
you will see you.
And you're not getting a response back on that I p That means it's not taken.
So use i p I'm assigning the static.
I p no mask.
2552552550 Gateway.
He is the I P address off your modem and then bonding under school options.
Equal mode five.
I'm picking mode five.
And what exactly?
Malan five is army.
I'm on is this is the speed and the state.
I have also included that in my document exactly what these options mean And I want you to
review them and you will know exactly what it means.
So now you could just save and exit the file.
Okay?
Once you have that says the bonding options detail can be found here.
You see?
Right here has all the option repacked.
If you remember,
we picked option five,
which is transmit load balancing.
You could read about it and then am I i m o n which is a monitoring am I linked monitoring
frequency in Mili seconds.
We picked 100.
Okay,
So next step is this is added the first Knick file,
which is e and P zero as three.
So I am in the root directory.
I'll go into that sea says config.
Just drag this a little more so you could see a little better.
Says conf exceeding network script.
And in this directory,
I already have a file called at CCF,
g E and P zero history do the I.
And now I have here.
I said delete the entire contents of how do you delete it in the Via You do de de de de de
de de de keep doing dee dee dee dee dee until you go to the bottom.
You are the bottom and says no lines in buffered.
That's good.
Now hit.
Enter.
Sorry.
On a hit insert you have.
You probably have to hit insert a couple of times to get it.
It's now keep typing.
What,
exactly?
It's in their type.
The next pro.
None device E and P zero s three on Booth.
Yes.
You want to have that boots hardware address?
This is a new one.
Now,
this is the Mac address off your eat and peas.
Your best three.
So,
what is my hardware Mac address?
Um,
you have to open up another term in the back drug,
and then just type if config and do more,
and you will see e and P zero s three has a Mac address off this.
So what I will do is I'll drag this a little bit on top.
I'll bring the other window in the bar in the back,
and now I could type the address.
08 Joe 27 c three zero.
Sorry.
Zero A to there.
28 verified to seven C 30 28 years and then it entered.
Master,
it's asking you who's your master?
The master is bond zero,
which is the other file that we created before that hit.
Enter Slave,
Are you a slave?
Meaning this interface is in a slave.
Listen.
Yes,
Toe check again.
Boot Proto boot.
We missed one.
Oh,
no,
we did not.
It's their type blue proto device on boot hardware address,
which is America.
Just master his bond,
your and slaves This.
Okay,
now save and exit.
Now follow the directions.
Okay.
Now it says create the second nick file for E N P zero s eight.
I could create a 2nd 1 Or I could just copy this e and P zero as three and changed the name
and Mac address so it will be easier.
Could just copy e and P's or s three and I name it.
See if g dash bnp's Orosz three and take up in a place 38 nights copied now,
V.
I see if g e and P's you're s eight now in your S eight.
Now you have to change this third line says device zero s three with eight.
Yes,
Yes.
And now the Mac address would be different.
Well,
back to you.
Other command,
that is open.
Bag it up and you will see here The marketers for GNP zero s eight is this one.
So once you have it highlighted,
drag it down so you could see it.
And now it change it.
It has.
It has changed after the three.
Opted,
though.
Zero d 17 nine b.
Okay,
Bond zero Master is the bond zero slave.
Yes,
I am a slave for Bonzo then,
right?
Quit Conceived of all follow saved.
Now I want to restart service system.
See Thiel,
restore the network SOS number three star hit.
Enter by running.
If config do the more on it and you will see now the I p that I have assigned says right
here 19 to 1 68 $1.80.
Its master and the other ports.
Sorry.
Other nicks.
U N P zero as three.
And it's eight.
You see here right here says you're their slave and slave.
So I ps signed has given 19 to 1 $61.80.
I'm gonna take this I p plug it into my party session and see if I could connect to it.
1 90 to 1 68 Rwanda 80 it enter.
Yes,
I could connect.
This is just a sausage key warning sign.
You could just accept it to save it.
And Dogan And yes,
There you go.
So now you know that your interface is combined together to and pointing it to Bonzo.
Any other instructions that we have,
we could go down.
We could also see here.
It's telling me that I could verify the setting by doing cat at Sea Pro Nick Bonding and
Bond zero.
And I do that I should not have.
Okay,
let me make this bigger.
And now you'll see her when I did the cat,
you see it say's currently active slave is this one?
It is Lord balancing slave interfaces.
This and seconds later interfaces this now once it is done,
I want you reward back to your original bm so just close it.
Power it off close and says power off the machine.
You pour it off Now go to your oracle Were from machine right here and first once wait for
it to power off,
then go to setting and then come to network come good network adapter to unchecked the one
we checked before.
Click.
Ok now it should not have the second adopter,
but I want to click now to the Snapshot one and click on Restore that this is going to
restore to the original state where we had it before Here it will create another snapshot
off your current state which I don't want you to do so unchecked this box and click restore
.
Now it is restored to exactly same way where it was before we started this lesson.
Alright guys,
I hope you enjoyed it and please try it on.
This is this is one of the topic is that's very important.
You will be working on a physical machines most of the time and you have to do number
bonding